# Verification API

The Verification API module provides the foundation to have multiple Verification Provider Plugins verify a given HTTP Request for a given User that a specific operation (e.g. password-reset) can be done.

## Motivation

In decoupled scenarios, handling verification of security-sensitive operations (e.g. email update, password reset, account cancellation) can be very tedious to implement, especially if multiple verification methods should be supported.

This module tries to solve this issue by implementing `VerificationProvider` Plugins that take a HTTP Request, a User and a operation and then verify those parameters for the given operation.

## Technical Details

To use verification, the `verification.request_verifier` provides a `verify` method to verify an HTTP request.

It is up to the Verification Provider Plugin to make sure that the given request has the correct verification data to
verify, that the given `$user` is allowed to perform the given `$operation`.

### Using a different email

To support more complex scenarios, a different email can be passed to the `verify` method, that is differnt than the email
address that is set on the user account.

### Using multiple verification providers

When using multiple verification providers, the `verification.request_verifier` services tries all available plugins
until the first one successfully verifies the request.

## Hash Provider

The `Hash` provider is a built-in verification provider that uses a hash and timestamp from the `user_pass_rehash` function to verify an operation.

This provider expects the incoming Request to have the following header:

`X-Verification-Hash: <hash>$$<timestamp>`

The hash and timestamp are separated with two dollar signs.

For comparison, a new hash is generated by the provider for the given user account.
The generated hash and passed hash are then compared if they match.

In addition, the hash is only valid for the configured password
reset timeout in `user.settings.password_reset_timeout`.

## Implementing a custom provider

To implement a custom Verification Provider, create a new `VerificationProvider` Plugin that
is annotated with the `VerificationProvider` annotation, extends the `VerificationProviderBase` class
and implements the `VerificationProviderInterface` interface.

For an example, simply look at the source code of the `Drupal\verification\Plugin\Verification\Hash` class.
